# Pexip SDK - Changes for Developers

We have reprioritised our efforts to focus on development of our
native Pexip clients. In order to do this, we will no longer provide
individual platform-specific SDKs for Android and iOS. This refocus of
development effort will allow us to build a richer and more intuitive
user experience that can be updated more frequently, and allow us to
provide a unified feature set across all platforms, which will benefit
both developers and end users.

We've seen that the vast majority of requests for SDKs are actually
for customers wanting to build a branded application, so as part of
this move we'll be providing a much easier way for customers to
rebrand our existing clients.

# Examples and Documentation

The documentation and examples provided here serve as a good starting
point for for building your native application against the Pexip
client API's.  The guide walks you through the basic concepts of the
client API, building dependencies such as WebRTC libraries and also
examples of other tasks required to build a successful native
application.  This document is a living document and will be updated
to reflect changes in the development of the client API but it is not
intended to be a complete step-by-step guide on building an
application nor a definitive reference for the client API, instead, it
should serve as a guide to the core concepts of the client API and the
principals involved to give you the confidence required to fully
explore the client API and make the most suitable app possible for
your needs.

[The guide](https://github.com/pexip/pexkit-sdk/tree/master/building_native_webrtc_applications_for_pexip.pdf)

The definitive Client API reference is always on
[https://docs.pexip.com/](https://docs.pexip.com/)

# Github Issues

We are no longer tracking issues on this site as the support of the
Client API's are covered under the standard Pexip support agreement.

If there are errors with the client API, please reach out to your
support contact at Pexip via apisupport@pexip.com

# Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a Contributor Code of
Conduct. By participating in this project you agree to abide by its
terms.

